let us take this arr and integer eight and find
the first and last occurrence
We will split this problem into two parts finding the
first occurrence and finding the last occurrence
And then we can solve them one by one
First let us find the first occurrence of given number
Let us to a binary search in this array for
integer eight here start is equal to zero and end
is equal to eight and mid will be Start plus end
Divided by two which is four
An array four is equal to eight
So we have found eight in the given array
Let us store this index four in a variable we
know that our given
array contains duplicates so there may be 8's occurring before
or after this element to find the first occurrence
that is check
Whether there is any eight present
Before this element set end index to mid minus one
and continued the binary search now start equal to zero
and end
is equal to three and mid is equal to zero
plus three divided by two which is equal to one
An array of one is four which is less than
our search key eight
Hence we will adjust the start index to mid plus
one
Now start is two end is three
This mid is two array of two is four again
so let us point start to mid
plus one that is three now start and end both
point to 3 thus mid
Is also three array of mid has eight now so
we have to update the variable first pos to 3 and
point
end to mid minus one as start becomes greater than
n the iteration ends here
The variable first pos will hold the index of first
occurrence of the number
Let us add this to a vector
res the only changed that we did to
binary search algorithm here
It's whenever the integer is found we did not stop
the search there
Instead we stored the index in a temporary variable and
continued to search by pointing end to mid minus one
Now let's find the last occurrence of the number again
Let's get started with doing a binary search for eight
in this array
But we have found integer eight at index four
here again
Once we find the element we will not stop there
instead We will store the current index in a temporary
variable and continue the search by pointing start to mid
plus one and check
If there is any eight present after the current matched
index iterations will continue untill start becomes greater than end
and whenever we find eight we will be updating the
variable last pos
Once iteration ends variable last pos will hold the last
occurence of the Element eight so let us added to the
result in vector.